# US 002 - Administração de Sistemas


## 1. Context

This task is a new feature being developed for the first time. The goal is to enhance the user experience by providing a personalized welcome message upon successful login to the Linux terminal.

## 2. Requirements


**US ASIST-002** Como administrador do sistema quero alterar a informação apresentada no terminal do sistema Linux após me autenticar, alterando a informação por omissão por uma mais criativa que contenha obrigatoriamente a data e o nome do utilizador

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- ASIST-002.1. The system shall present a welcome message with the user name and the current date after the user logs in.


**Dependencies/References:**

*N/A*

## 3. Analysis

### 3.1. Requirement

The system shall present a welcome message with the user name and the current date after the user logs in. This message should be displayed in the terminal after the user logs in. The message should be displayed in a creative way, with the user name and the current date.

### 3.2. Research

After some research, there are two ways of implementing this feature, using `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile`.

#### 3.2.1. What is .bashrc?

The `.bashrc` file is a hidden script file containing various terminal session configurations. The file executes automatically in both interactive and non-interactive non-login shells.

When running a non-login shell (subshell), the primary read configuration file is the `/etc/bash.bashrc`. The file contains system-wide configurations for non-login shells.

#### 3.2.2. What is .bash_profile?

The `.bash_profile` file is a hidden script file with custom configurations for a user terminal session. The file automatically executes in Bash interactive login shells.

When running an interactive login shell, the system reads the following configuration file first:

- `/etc/profile` - Stores global configurations for login shells. The configurations apply to all users.

Next, the Bash shell searches for specific user configuration files in the following order:

- `~/.bash_profile`
- `~/.bash_login`
- `~/.profile`

#### 3.2.3. Difference between .bashrc and .bash_profile

The critical differences between `.bashrc` and `.bash_profile` are:

- `.bashrc` defines the settings for a user when running a subshell. Add custom configurations to this file to make parameters available in subshells for a specific user.
- `.bash_profile` defines the settings for a user when running a login shell. Add custom configurations to this file to make parameters available to a specific user when running a login shell.

### 3.3. Decision

Considering the above analysis, it was decided to use the `.bash_profile` file due to the requirement of the message being displayed after the user logs in.

Information for analysis was obtained from the following source:

- https://phoenixnap.com/kb/bashrc-vs-bash-profile

## 4. Implementation

*In this section the team should present, if necessary, some evidencies that the implementation is according to the design. It should also describe and explain other important artifacts necessary to fully understand the implementation like, for instance, configuration files.*

*It is also a best practice to include a listing (with a brief summary) of the major commits regarding this requirement.*

## 5. Integration/Demonstration

*In this section the team should describe the efforts realized in order to integrate this functionality with the other parts/components of the system*

*It is also important to explain any scripts or instructions required to execute an demonstrate this functionality*

## 6. Observations

*This section should be used to include any content that does not fit any of the previous sections.*

*The team should present here, for instance, a critical prespective on the developed work including the analysis of alternative solutioons or related works*

*The team should include in this section statements/references regarding third party works that were used in the development this work.*